update kibana intro (#543)
logzio/logz-docs: _source/user-guide/kibana/log-patterns.md

title: Log patterns
description: Log Patterns analyzes log messages and groups them according to detected patterns. We built Log Patterns to live alongside your logs in Kibana. You can see your patterns under the Patterns tab, and then click the Logs tab to return Kibana's familiar Discover view.
permalink: /user-guide/kibana/log-patterns.html
#flags:
  #beta: true
  #logzio-plan: pro
tags:
  - log-patterns
contributors:
  - danielberman
  - imnotashrimp
  - shalper
---

Log Patterns runs advanced clustering algorithms to group logs by their frequency of occurrence to help you identify patterns in your logs. Use Patterns to quickly single out unique or unusual events from the mass of recurring and repetitive events.

As your logs come into Kibana, you'll see how they fit into existing patterns,
in near real time.

> Log patterns can help you surface logs you might have otherwise missed, logs that should be captured by [Optimizers]({{site.baseurl}}/user-guide/optimizers/configure-optimizers.html) and saved to a Timeless Account for long-term retention, or logs that you don't need to ship to your account and can be dropped using [drop filters]({{site.baseurl}}/user-guide/accounts/drop-filters/).

Reviewer: The sentence about the optimizers is really confusing and I am not even sure what was the meaning here and why was it added

![Log patterns](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/kibana/patterns2.png)

To open Log Patterns, click the **Patterns** tab in [Kibana Discover](https://app.logz.io/#/dashboard/kibana).

## Understanding Log Patterns

You can sort your log patterns by time, count, or ratio.

![Log patterns](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/kibana/patterns-annotated1.png)

> Time

Reviewer: Note that the patterns are not only reflecting the time range but also the actual query (and the relevant logs returning as the search results). This can be reflected in several locations on this doc page.

> : The timestamp of the first log with this pattern in this time range.

Reviewer 2: @shalper solely for the purpose of learning. Shouldn't it be `...in a time range`? Because we never specified a time range before so `this` doesn't refer to anything

Author: ```suggestion
: The timestamp of the first log belonging to this pattern in the selected time range.
```

: The pattern itself.
  Data types (such as IP addresses, numbers, or URLs) are shown in brown.

>   Hover over a pattern to see the familiar Kibana filter controls.

Reviewer: The filter controls are there also with no hover
